# SimmilarityOfXRDData
X ray Diffraction data
Data science is intrinsically inter-disciplinary; however, end-users of machine learning models are not always trained data scientists. On the other hand, it is crucial that these models be infused with domain knowledge in order to increase explainability and trust in their output. Our ultimate goal is to assign domain-aware confidence scores to help domain experts make informed decisions. Our hypothesis is that given confidence scores, end-users will be more willing to trust and adopt machine learning models. We test this hypothesis with materials informatics, a field that has the potential to greatly reduce time-to-market and development costs for new materials as it leverages machine learning and large datasets for targeted design. For example, automated phase-mapping seeks to discover samples of materials mixture with similar structure. This is challenging because measurements per sample far exceed the number of samples to cluster making it difficult to interpret and generalize. Towards this goal, we have developed a system for comparing and contrasting clustering methods and discover the “best” number of clusters based on agreements between the different methods. Parallelly, we have recently explored repurposing a clustering metric as a measure of uncertainty to help differentiate between “easy” and “hard” cases in classification and clustering.
This follow up independent study will continue to explore this novel uncertainty metric as a way to refocus the problem on finding the boundaries of the phase regions (samples with similar structure).
